docs/lab-2/address-list.rst, before:

LAB 2.1 - Create AFM Address List
==================================

Overview
---------


Preface
--------

Prior to performing this lab, the Postman environemnt should valided.  The **{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}** IP address should be the IP address of the BIG-IP GUI.  Ensure that you can log into the BIG-IP with the default username and password.  Follow the **Lab 1.1 - API Authentication** steps in order found in the Postman collection to complete this portion of the lab.  The requests and responses have been included below for referance.

In this lab, the basic authenication value is the base64-encoding of the BIG-IPs default username and password **admin:admin**.

1. List Firewall Policies
--------------------------

**Request**

::

    GET https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy

**Example Response**

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:policy:policycollectionstate",
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy?ver=13.0.0",
        "items": [
            {
                "kind": "tm:security:firewall:policy:policystate",
                "name": "block_all",
                "partition": "Common",
                "fullPath": "/Common/block_all",
                "generation": 5789,
                "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy/~Common~block_all?ver=13.0.0",
                "rulesReference": {
                    "link": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy/~Common~block_all/rules?ver=13.0.0",
                    "isSubcollection": true
                }
            }
        ]
    }

2. List all Firewall Address Lists
-----------------------------------

**Request**

::

    GET https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

**Example Response**

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-listcollectionstate",
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list?ver=13.0.0",
        "items": [
            {
                "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
                "name": "test_address_list",
                "partition": "Common",
                "fullPath": "/Common/test_address_list",
                "generation": 6326,
                "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~test_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
                "addresses": [
                    {
                        "name": "1.1.1.1"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }

3. Create Firewall Address List
--------------------------------

**Request**

::

    POST https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

**Body**

::

    {
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            }
        ]
    }

**Example Request**

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "partition": "Common",
        "fullPath": "/Common/google-dns_address_list",
        "generation": 11436,
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~google-dns_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            }
        ]
    }

4. List Single Firewall Address List
-------------------------------------

**Request**

::

    GET https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/{{afm_address_list}}

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

**Example Request**

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "partition": "Common",
        "fullPath": "/Common/google-dns_address_list",
        "generation": 11436,
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~google-dns_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            }
        ]
    }

5. Update Firewall Address List
--------------------------------

**Request**

::

    PATCH https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/{{afm_address_list}}

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

.. note:: Include the contents of the address list plus the new address(es) to ensure that the contents are not overwritten.

**Body**

::

    {
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            },
            {
                "name": "8.8.8.8"
            }
        ]
    }

**Example Request**

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "partition": "Common",
        "fullPath": "/Common/google-dns_address_list",
        "generation": 11436,
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~google-dns_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            },
            {
                "name": "8.8.8.8"
            }
        ]
    }

Commit message:

Various content changes to Labs 1, 2, and 3.

docs/lab-2/address-list.rst, after:

LAB 2.1 - Create AFM Address List
==================================

Overview
---------

In this lab, the iControl REST based API will be used to creat a address list that will be used with an AFM policy in a later lab.

Lab Specific Instructions
--------------------------

Follow the **LAB 2.1 - Create AFM Address List** steps in order found in the Postman collection to complete this portion of the lab.  The requests and responses have been included below for referance.

.. attention:: Some response content has been removed for brevity.

1. List Firewall Policies
--------------------------

**Request**

::

    GET https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy

**Example Response**

.. note:: A test policy has already been created on the BIG-IP for demonstration purposes.

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:policy:policycollectionstate",
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy?ver=13.0.0",
        "items": [
            {
                "kind": "tm:security:firewall:policy:policystate",
                "name": "block_all",
                "partition": "Common",
                "fullPath": "/Common/block_all",
                "generation": 5789,
                "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy/~Common~block_all?ver=13.0.0",
                "rulesReference": {
                    "link": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/policy/~Common~block_all/rules?ver=13.0.0",
                    "isSubcollection": true
                }
            }
        ]
    }

2. List all Firewall Address Lists
-----------------------------------

**Request**

::

    GET https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

**Example Response**

.. note:: A test address list has already been created on the BIG-IP for demonstration purposes.

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-listcollectionstate",
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list?ver=13.0.0",
        "items": [
            {
                "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
                "name": "test_address_list",
                "partition": "Common",
                "fullPath": "/Common/test_address_list",
                "generation": 6326,
                "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~test_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
                "addresses": [
                    {
                        "name": "1.1.1.1"
                    }
                ]
            }
        ]
    }

3. Create an Address List
--------------------------

An HTTP POST to the ``/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/`` endpoint with a body containing the configuration creates an address list that can be used with a firewall policy.

**Request**

::

    POST https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

**Body**

::

    {
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            }
        ]
    }

**Example Request**

.. code-block:: rest
    :emphasize-lines: 3, 8-12

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "partition": "Common",
        "fullPath": "/Common/google-dns_address_list",
        "generation": 11436,
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~google-dns_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            }
        ]
    }

4. List Single Firewall Address List
-------------------------------------

**Request**

::

    GET https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/{{afm_address_list}}

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

**Example Request**

::

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "partition": "Common",
        "fullPath": "/Common/google-dns_address_list",
        "generation": 11436,
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~google-dns_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            }
        ]
    }

5. Update Firewall Address List
--------------------------------

An HTTP PATCH to the ``/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/{{afm_address_list}}`` endpoint with a body containing all addresses that should exist in the address list will update this collection.

**Request**

::

    PATCH https://{{big_ip_a_mgmt}}/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/{{afm_address_list}}

**Headers**

:: 

    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46YWRtaW4=

.. note:: Include the contents of the address list plus the new address(es) to ensure that the contents are not overwritten.

**Body**

.. warning:: When patching an address list, be sure to include all addresses (e.g. existing and new) to ensure that the list does not get overwritten.

::

    {
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            },
            {
                "name": "8.8.8.8"
            }
        ]
    }

**Example Request**

.. code-block:: rest
    :emphasize-lines: 3, 8-15

    {
        "kind": "tm:security:firewall:address-list:address-liststate",
        "name": "google-dns_address_list",
        "partition": "Common",
        "fullPath": "/Common/google-dns_address_list",
        "generation": 11436,
        "selfLink": "https://localhost/mgmt/tm/security/firewall/address-list/~Common~google-dns_address_list?ver=13.0.0",
        "addresses": [
            {
                "name": "8.8.4.4"
            },
            {
                "name": "8.8.8.8"
            }
        ]
    }
