docs/class2/module2/lab4.rst, before:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 2
.. |labnum| replace:: 4
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Run a workflow with f5-newman-wrapper
-------------------------------------------------------------------

In this lab we will use the f5-super-netops-container to run the workflow we
reviewed in the previous lab.  The advantage of using the f5-super-netops
Container is that all the tools, collections and frameworks are pre-installed
and ready to use.

Task 1 - Run a f5-newman-wrapper Workflow
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Return to, or open an SSH session as described in the :ref:`previous lab <lab1_3_1>`
#. Run ``cd f5-postman-workflows/local``
#. Run ``cp ../workflows/Wrapper_Demo_1.json .``
#. Edit the ``Wrapper_Demo_1.json`` file with ``vim`` and enter the ``10.1.1.10`` for
   the value of the ``bigip_mgmt`` variable

   .. code:: json

        "globalVars": {
                "bigip_mgmt": "10.1.1.10",
                "bigip_username":"admin",
                "bigip_password":"admin"
        },

#. Run ``f5-newman-wrapper Wrapper_Demo_1.json``
#. Examine the output to see how the workflow was executed.  Notice that
   the same tests that we saw when using Postman are present during this
   run.

   Example output:

   .. code::


        [snops@f5-super-netops] [~/f5-postman-workflows/local] $ f5-newman-wrapper Wrapper_Demo_1.json
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] starting run
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] [runCollection][Authenticate to BIG-IP] running...
        newman

        BIGIP_API_Authentication

        ❏ 1_Authenticate
        ↳ Authenticate and Obtain Token
          POST https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/shared/authn/login [200 OK, 1.41KB, 108ms]
          ✓  [POST Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_token=WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2

        ↳ Verify Authentication Works
          GET https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2 [200 OK, 1.23KB, 8ms]
          ✓  [GET Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Current Value] token=WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2
          ✓  [Check Value] token == WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2

        ↳ Set Authentication Token Timeout
          PATCH https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2 [200 OK, 1.23KB, 14ms]
          ✓  [PATCH Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Current Value] timeout=1200
          ✓  [Check Value] timeout == 1200

        ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
        │                         │ executed │   failed │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │                requests │        3 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │            test-scripts │        3 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │      prerequest-scripts │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              assertions │        8 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
        │ total run duration: 297ms                     │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ total data received: 1.71KB (approx)          │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ average response time: 43ms                   │
        └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] [runCollection][Get BIG-IP Software Version] running...
        newman

        BIGIP_Operational_Workflows

        ❏ 4A_Get_BIGIP_Version
        ↳ Get Software Version
          GET https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/tm/sys/software/volume [200 OK, 1.32KB, 16ms]
          ✓  [GET Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_version=12.1.1
          ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_build=1.0.196
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] run completed

        ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
        │                         │ executed │   failed │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │                requests │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │            test-scripts │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │      prerequest-scripts │        0 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              assertions │        3 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
        │ total run duration: 58ms                      │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ total data received: 611B (approx)            │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ average response time: 16ms                   │
        └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
#. Examine the environment variables that were saved at the end of the
   run by executing ``cat Wrapper_Demo_1-env.json``

   Example output:

   .. code-block:: json
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 29-38

      {
        "id": "c0550892-36d4-4412-bf35-a1d9aa8d2efe",
        "values": [
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "10.1.1.10",
            "key": "bigip_mgmt"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "admin",
            "key": "bigip_username"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "admin",
            "key": "bigip_password"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2",
            "key": "bigip_token"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "1200",
            "key": "bigip_token_timeout"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "12.1.1",
            "key": "bigip_version"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "1.0.196",
            "key": "bigip_build"
          }
        ]
      }

Notice that the ``bigip_version`` and ``bigip_build`` variables were
saved, similar to how this was shown in the Postman GUI Environment Variables.
This file is JSON formatted and can easily be used directly
by other tools to drive further automation.

Commit message:

class2 fixes (#170)
* Class2 errata

mod2lab1:
and a automated Test Framework. > and an automated test framework.
closed an relaunched. > closed and relaunched.
To utilize the helper functions the framework includes > To utilize the helper functions included in the framework

mod2lab2:
fix image for selecting the environment

mod2lab4:
If you need to launch the container once more, follow the instructions in this previous lab and log in as snops.

mod2lab5:
to the the 1_Authenticate > to the 1_Authenticate >

mod3lab2:
#. The above f5-newman-wrapper  <--fix indentation
Delete any virtual servers or Pools that appear in the GUI.  <--add to be more explicit

mod3lab3:
f5-newman-build-3 contains > f5-newman-build-4 contains

mod4mod4:
 if it’s not please refer to Class 2 Module 2 on starting the service. >  if it’s not please refer to Class 2 Module 1 Lab 2 on starting the service.

mod4lab1:
minor edits to Slack explanation

mod4lab2:
Once the Job is saved, <---fix indentation
Highlight over the third Stage to prompt for the Approval   <---fix indentation
Repeat steps 2 & 3 of the last module,   <--Repeats steps 2 & 3 of the previous task to create 2 new Jenkins jobs,

mod4lab3
Destruction of an Application Services is > Destruction of Application Services is
Repeat steps 2 & 3 of the first module > Repeat steps 2 & 3 of task 1 in the previous lab
if you have extra time > If you have extra time

* trying to fix indentation and numbered lists

docs/class2/module2/lab4.rst, after:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 2
.. |labnum| replace:: 4
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Run a workflow with f5-newman-wrapper
-------------------------------------------------------------------

In this lab we will use the f5-super-netops-container to run the workflow we
reviewed in the previous lab.  The advantage of using the f5-super-netops
Container is that all the tools, collections and frameworks are pre-installed
and ready to use.

Task 1 - Run a f5-newman-wrapper Workflow
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Return to, or open an SSH session as described in the :ref:`previous lab <lab1_3_1>`
    If you need to launch the container once more, follow the instructions in this :ref:`previous lab <lab1_2_1>` 
    and log in as snops
#. Run ``cd f5-postman-workflows/local``
#. Run ``cp ../workflows/Wrapper_Demo_1.json .``
#. Edit the ``Wrapper_Demo_1.json`` file with ``vim`` and enter the ``10.1.1.10`` for
   the value of the ``bigip_mgmt`` variable

   .. code:: json

        "globalVars": {
                "bigip_mgmt": "10.1.1.10",
                "bigip_username":"admin",
                "bigip_password":"admin"
        },

#. Run ``f5-newman-wrapper Wrapper_Demo_1.json``
#. Examine the output to see how the workflow was executed.  Notice that
   the same tests that we saw when using Postman are present during this
   run.

   Example output:

   .. code::


        [snops@f5-super-netops] [~/f5-postman-workflows/local] $ f5-newman-wrapper Wrapper_Demo_1.json
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] starting run
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] [runCollection][Authenticate to BIG-IP] running...
        newman

        BIGIP_API_Authentication

        ❏ 1_Authenticate
        ↳ Authenticate and Obtain Token
          POST https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/shared/authn/login [200 OK, 1.41KB, 108ms]
          ✓  [POST Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_token=WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2

        ↳ Verify Authentication Works
          GET https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2 [200 OK, 1.23KB, 8ms]
          ✓  [GET Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Current Value] token=WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2
          ✓  [Check Value] token == WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2

        ↳ Set Authentication Token Timeout
          PATCH https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2 [200 OK, 1.23KB, 14ms]
          ✓  [PATCH Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Current Value] timeout=1200
          ✓  [Check Value] timeout == 1200

        ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
        │                         │ executed │   failed │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │                requests │        3 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │            test-scripts │        3 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │      prerequest-scripts │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              assertions │        8 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
        │ total run duration: 297ms                     │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ total data received: 1.71KB (approx)          │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ average response time: 43ms                   │
        └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] [runCollection][Get BIG-IP Software Version] running...
        newman

        BIGIP_Operational_Workflows

        ❏ 4A_Get_BIGIP_Version
        ↳ Get Software Version
          GET https://10.1.1.10/mgmt/tm/sys/software/volume [200 OK, 1.32KB, 16ms]
          ✓  [GET Response Code]=200
          ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_version=12.1.1
          ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_build=1.0.196
        [Wrapper_Demo_1-2017-03-30-04-08-12] run completed

        ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
        │                         │ executed │   failed │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │                requests │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │            test-scripts │        1 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │      prerequest-scripts │        0 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
        │              assertions │        3 │        0 │
        ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
        │ total run duration: 58ms                      │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ total data received: 611B (approx)            │
        ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
        │ average response time: 16ms                   │
        └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
#. Examine the environment variables that were saved at the end of the
   run by executing ``cat Wrapper_Demo_1-env.json``

   Example output:

   .. code-block:: json
      :linenos:
      :emphasize-lines: 29-38

      {
        "id": "c0550892-36d4-4412-bf35-a1d9aa8d2efe",
        "values": [
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "10.1.1.10",
            "key": "bigip_mgmt"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "admin",
            "key": "bigip_username"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "admin",
            "key": "bigip_password"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "WYKIVPHCNASNVEC55ZDVNH5OO2",
            "key": "bigip_token"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "1200",
            "key": "bigip_token_timeout"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "12.1.1",
            "key": "bigip_version"
          },
          {
            "type": "any",
            "value": "1.0.196",
            "key": "bigip_build"
          }
        ]
      }

Notice that the ``bigip_version`` and ``bigip_build`` variables were
saved, similar to how this was shown in the Postman GUI Environment Variables.
This file is JSON formatted and can easily be used directly
by other tools to drive further automation.
