docs/class2/module3/lab4.rst, before:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 3
.. |labnum| replace:: 3
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum| - Execute an f5-newman-wrapper for **Teardown**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To get ready for the next module, we're going to execute one last f5-newman-wrapper
directly. This file is designed to delete the framework and service we created in the
last few labs. We used 2 f5-newman-wrapper files to create our service, but for the deletion
we will only use 1.

Task 1 - Execute f5-newman-build-5
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Return to or open a new session to the ``super-netops-container`` user credentials are ``snops`` and ``default``
#. Navigate to the location containing the f5-newman-wrapper files ``cd ~/f5-automation-labs/jenkins/f5-newman-build``
#. On BIG-IP A examine the virtual server ``module_3_vs``, it should be active and Green:

   |module-3-1|

#. On BIGIP-A examine the pool ``module_3_pool``, you should show 2 active members Green:

   |module-3-2|

#. ``f5-newman-build-5`` contains calls to delete all items we've created in the last few modules

   Execute: ``f5-newman-wrapper f5-newman-build-5``

   Output should look like:

   .. code-block:: console
      :linenos:

      $ f5-newman-wrapper f5-newman-build-5
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] starting run
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] [runCollection][Authenticate to BIG-IP] running...
      newman

      BIGIP_API_Authentication

      ❏ 1_Authenticate
      ↳ Authenticate and Obtain Token
        POST https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/shared/authn/login [200 OK, 1.41KB, 194ms]
        ✓  [POST Response Code]=200
        ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_token=NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH

      ↳ Verify Authentication Works
        GET https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH [200 OK, 1.23KB, 16ms]
        ✓  [GET Response Code]=200
        ✓  [Current Value] token=NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH
        ✓  [Check Value] token == NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH

      ↳ Set Authentication Token Timeout
        PATCH https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH [200 OK, 1.23KB, 17ms]
        ✓  [PATCH Response Code]=200
        ✓  [Current Value] timeout=1200
        ✓  [Check Value] timeout == 1200

      ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
      │                         │ executed │   failed │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │                requests │        3 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │            test-scripts │        3 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │      prerequest-scripts │        1 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              assertions │        8 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
      │ total run duration: 835ms                     │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ total data received: 1.71KB (approx)          │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ average response time: 75ms                   │
      └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] [runCollection][5 - Clean Up Service] running...
      newman

      f5-programmability-class-2

      ❏ 5 - Clean Up Service
      ↳ Step 1: Delete a Virtual Server
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/virtual/module_3_vs [200 OK, 740B, 57ms]

      ↳ Step 2: Delete a TCP Profile
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/profile/tcp/module_3_tcp_clientside [200 OK, 740B, 88ms]

      ↳ Step 3: Delete a HTTP Profile
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/profile/http/module_3_http [200 OK, 740B, 56ms]

      ↳ Step 4: Delete a Pool
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/pool/module_3_pool [200 OK, 740B, 47ms]

      ↳ Step 5: Delete a HTTP Monitor
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/monitor/http/module_3_http_monitor [200 OK, 740B, 59ms]

      ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
      │                         │ executed │   failed │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │                requests │        5 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │            test-scripts │        0 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │      prerequest-scripts │        0 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              assertions │        0 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
      │ total run duration: 445ms                     │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ total data received: 0B (approx)              │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ average response time: 61ms                   │
      └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] run completed in 4s, 267.464 ms


   .. NOTE:: Notice the 200 OK responses, as it completed successfully

#. On BIG-IP A examine Virtual ``module_3_vs`` and Pool ``module_3_pool`` are deleted

.. |module-3-1| image:: images/module-3-1.png
   :scale: 70%
.. |module-3-2| image:: images/module-3-2.png
   :scale: 70%

Commit message:

bringing Class 2 into the Class 1 Blueprint
Changes to text and descriptions to bring class 2 into the class 1
blueprint. the only technical changes that needed to be adjusted were
the collections referencing the old BIGIP A management and the old
nodes which are no longer used in place of the containers. Module 5
will come later this week (the new GIT Commit work). I wanted a good
baseline before introducing that

docs/class2/module3/lab4.rst, after:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 3
.. |labnum| replace:: 3
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum| - Execute an f5-newman-wrapper for **Teardown**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To get ready for the next module, we're going to execute one last f5-newman-wrapper
directly. This file is designed to delete the framework and service we created in the
last few labs. We used 2 f5-newman-wrapper files to create our service, but for the deletion
we will only use 1. This is important because we can seperate the service nodes
availability into Infrastructure as Code concepts loosely coupled from the service 
and calls needed.

Task 1 - Execute f5-newman-build-5
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Navigate to the location containing the f5-newman-wrapper files ``cd ~/f5-automation-labs/jenkins/f5-newman-build``
#. On BIG-IP A examine the virtual server ``module_3_vs``, it should be active and Green:

   |module-3-1|

#. On BIGIP-A examine the pool ``module_3_pool``, you should show 2 active members Green:

   |module-3-2|

#. ``f5-newman-build-5`` contains calls to delete all items we've created in the last few modules

   Execute: ``f5-newman-wrapper f5-newman-build-5``

   Output should look like:

   .. code-block:: console
      :linenos:

      $ f5-newman-wrapper f5-newman-build-5
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] starting run
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] [runCollection][Authenticate to BIG-IP] running...
      newman

      BIGIP_API_Authentication

      ❏ 1_Authenticate
      ↳ Authenticate and Obtain Token
        POST https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/shared/authn/login [200 OK, 1.41KB, 194ms]
        ✓  [POST Response Code]=200
        ✓  [Populate Variable] bigip_token=NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH

      ↳ Verify Authentication Works
        GET https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH [200 OK, 1.23KB, 16ms]
        ✓  [GET Response Code]=200
        ✓  [Current Value] token=NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH
        ✓  [Check Value] token == NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH

      ↳ Set Authentication Token Timeout
        PATCH https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/shared/authz/tokens/NGEHHD6ZDJFD2MNF2UL3UXTGVH [200 OK, 1.23KB, 17ms]
        ✓  [PATCH Response Code]=200
        ✓  [Current Value] timeout=1200
        ✓  [Check Value] timeout == 1200

      ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
      │                         │ executed │   failed │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │                requests │        3 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │            test-scripts │        3 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │      prerequest-scripts │        1 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              assertions │        8 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
      │ total run duration: 835ms                     │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ total data received: 1.71KB (approx)          │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ average response time: 75ms                   │
      └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] [runCollection][5 - Clean Up Service] running...
      newman

      f5-programmability-class-2

      ❏ 5 - Clean Up Service
      ↳ Step 1: Delete a Virtual Server
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/virtual/module_3_vs [200 OK, 740B, 57ms]

      ↳ Step 2: Delete a TCP Profile
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/profile/tcp/module_3_tcp_clientside [200 OK, 740B, 88ms]

      ↳ Step 3: Delete a HTTP Profile
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/profile/http/module_3_http [200 OK, 740B, 56ms]

      ↳ Step 4: Delete a Pool
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/pool/module_3_pool [200 OK, 740B, 47ms]

      ↳ Step 5: Delete a HTTP Monitor
        DELETE https://10.1.1.4/mgmt/tm/ltm/monitor/http/module_3_http_monitor [200 OK, 740B, 59ms]

      ┌─────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┐
      │                         │ executed │   failed │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              iterations │        1 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │                requests │        5 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │            test-scripts │        0 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │      prerequest-scripts │        0 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┼──────────┼──────────┤
      │              assertions │        0 │        0 │
      ├─────────────────────────┴──────────┴──────────┤
      │ total run duration: 445ms                     │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ total data received: 0B (approx)              │
      ├───────────────────────────────────────────────┤
      │ average response time: 61ms                   │
      └───────────────────────────────────────────────┘
      [f5-newman-build-5-2017-07-26-09-28-13] run completed in 4s, 267.464 ms


   .. NOTE:: Notice the 200 OK responses, as it completed successfully

#. On BIG-IP A examine Virtual ``module_3_vs`` and Pool ``module_3_pool`` are deleted

.. |module-3-1| image:: images/module-3-1.png
   :scale: 70%
.. |module-3-2| image:: images/module-3-2.png
   :scale: 70%
