docs/class2/module1/lab2.rst, before:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 1
.. |labnum| replace:: 2
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Obtain & Start the f5-super-netops-container Image
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In this lab we will use the ``docker`` cli tools to obtain and start the
f5-super-netops-container image.

Task 1 - Obtain and verify the container image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Open a Command Prompt

.. NOTE:: If you are using an F5 provided lab environment please SSH to the
      'Docker Server' host and execute the following commands.

#. Execute ``docker pull f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

   Example output:

   .. code::

      $ docker pull f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins
      jenkins: Pulling from f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container
      019300c8a437: Pull complete
      2d6b38b56ae7: Pull complete
      5fab9174d5b4: Pull complete
      fc0251c85d81: Pull complete
      d5c1476cba25: Pull complete
      3f563aeb530f: Pull complete
      56717b902584: Pull complete
      3a973f5ee17d: Pull complete
      68d52f474d41: Pull complete
      604d6366bf0b: Pull complete
      b3b4184aef22: Pull complete
      2cebe1f5955c: Pull complete
      2b7bce9d0d9e: Pull complete
      259f696f7766: Pull complete
      6d5f2e57c5b3: Pull complete
      985706ad6d05: Pull complete
      a29f68892227: Pull complete
      7420ee096abd: Pull complete
      0907797bbe90: Pull complete
      5b8f2518bf01: Pull complete
      2940be145e35: Pull complete
      f2cb35cbf665: Pull complete
      5cdfa1779954: Pull complete
      61c1367b68d8: Pull complete
      5bcd8c5223bb: Pull complete
      b0defdb83b82: Pull complete
      Digest: sha256:27563f98bf58c9d26eb5989acaf540a9ad7fb1806e4a4c373ad28769ebe63ef4
      Status: Downloaded newer image for f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins

#. Execute ``docker images``

   Example output:

   .. code::

      $ docker images
      REPOSITORY                               TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
      f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container   jenkins             b71fc40407e4        2 weeks ago         490MB

Task 2 - Start the container image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start using the container we will execute the command:

#. Execute ``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=master f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

.. NOTE:: The image requires Internet connectivity to download the latest versions of tools and documentation.  Please ensure you have proper connectivity from your host prior to starting the image.  If you need to use a proxy please refer to the documentation at https://docs.docker.com

   The image will now start and load resources from the Internet.  This process
   may take a while depending on the speed of your connection.  When the startup
   process is complete you will be presented in the ``root`` user prompt.  You
   can interact with the image with standard Linux commands.  In the next lab
   we will connect to the image via SSH and HTTP.

   The ``-p`` option publishes a L4 port from the container to the host.  For
   example the ``-p 8080:80`` option will redirect port ``8080`` on the host system
   to port ``80`` in the container.

   The ``-it`` option will make the session interactive and allocate a pseudo-TTY

   The ``-e`` option will specify a Github Branch, in this case we are pulling from ``master``

   The ``f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins`` option is the name
   associated with the image we obtained in Task 1.

   Example startup output:

   .. code::

      container:jenkins
      [s6-init] making user provided files available at /var/run/s6/etc...exited 0.
      [s6-init] ensuring user provided files have correct perms...exited 0.
      [fix-attrs.d] applying ownership & permissions fixes...
      [fix-attrs.d] done.
      [cont-init.d] executing container initialization scripts...
      [cont-init.d] done.
      [services.d] starting services
      [services.d] done.
      [environment] SNOPS_HOST_SSH=2222
      [environment] SNOPS_REPO=https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container.git
      [environment] SNOPS_AUTOCLONE=1
      [environment] SNOPS_HOST_IP=172.17.0.2
      [environment] SNOPS_ISALIVE=1
      [environment] SNOPS_GIT_HOST=github.com
      [environment] SNOPS_REVEALJS_DEV=0
      [environment] SNOPS_HOST_HTTP=8080
      [environment] SNOPS_IMAGE=jenkins
      [environment] SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=master
      Reticulating splines...
      Becoming self-aware...
      [cloneGitRepos] Retrieving repository list from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container.git#develop
      [updateRepos] Processing /tmp/snops-repo/images/jenkins/fs/etc/snopsrepo.d/jenkins.json
      [updateRepos]  Processing /tmp/snops-repo/images/base/fs/etc/snopsrepo.d/base.json
      [updateRepos] Processing /tmp/user_repos.json
      [cloneGitRepos] Loading repositories from /home/snops/repos.json
      [cloneGitRepos] Found 7 repositories to clone...
      [cloneGitRepos][1/7] Cloning f5-sphinx-theme#master from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-sphinx-theme.git
      [cloneGitRepos][1/7]  Installing f5-sphinx-theme#master
      [cloneGitRepos][2/7] Cloning f5-super-netops-container#develop from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container.git
      [cloneGitRepos][2/7]  Installing f5-super-netops-container#develop
      [cloneGitRepos][3/7] Cloning f5-application-services-integration-iApp#develop from https://github.com/F5Networks/f5-application-services-integration-iApp.git
      [cloneGitRepos][3/7]  Installing f5-application-services-integration-iApp#develop
      [cloneGitRepos][4/7] Cloning f5-postman-workflows#develop from https://github.com/0xHiteshPatel/f5-postman-workflows.git
      [cloneGitRepos][4/7]  Installing f5-postman-workflows#develop
      [cloneGitRepos][5/7] Cloning f5-automation-labs#master from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-automation-labs.git
      [cloneGitRepos][5/7]  Installing f5-automation-labs#master
      [cloneGitRepos][6/7] Cloning ultimate-vimrc#master from https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git
      [cloneGitRepos][6/7]  Installing ultimate-vimrc#master
      [cloneGitRepos][7/7] Cloning reveal-js#master from https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js.git
      [cloneGitRepos][7/7]  Installing reveal-js#master
                                      .----------.
                                     /          /
                                    /   ______.'
                              _.._ /   /_
                            .' .._/      '''--.
                            | '  '___          `.
                          __| |__    `'.         |
                         |__   __|      )        |
                            | | ......-'        /
                            | | \          _..'`
                            | |  '------'''
                            | |                      _
                            |_|                     | |
       ___ _   _ _ __   ___ _ __          _ __   ___| |_ ___  _ __  ___
      / __| | | | '_ \ / _ \ '__| ______ | '_ \ / _ \ __/ _ \| '_ \/ __|
      \__ \ |_| | |_) |  __/ |   |______|| | | |  __/ || (_) | |_) \__ \
      |___/\__,_| .__/ \___|_|           |_| |_|\___|\__\___/| .__/|___/
                | |                                          | |
                |_|                                          |_|

      Welcome to the f5-super-netops-container.  This image has the following
      services running:

       SSH  tcp/22
       HTTP tcp/80

      To access these services you may need to remap ports on your host to the
      local container using the command:

       docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -it f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:base

      From the HOST perspective, this results in:

       localhost:2222 -> f5-super-netops-container:22
       localhost:8080 -> f5-super-netops-container:80

      You can then connect using the following:

       HTTP: http://localhost:8080
       SSH:  ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost

      Default Credentials:

       snops/default
       root/default

      Go forth and automate!

      (you can now detach by using Ctrl+P+Q)

      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] #

Task 3 - Detach/Re-attach the Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When running containers it's important to understand that it will exit if the
foreground process (in this case the shell) exits.  For example, if you typed
the ``exit`` command in the running container it will shutdown.  In order to
avoid this you should detach from the container once it has completed booting.
You can still perform functions by using SSH to access the container as
explained in the next lab.

Its likely that the installation of the f5-super-netops-container will not be
on a localhost while running in a large environment, the steps below show how
you can leave this instance running as a background process, if needed.

Detach the Container
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Issue a ``Ctrl+p+q`` in the running TTY.

   Example output:

   .. code::

      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] #
      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] #
      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] # <enter Ctrl+p+q>
      hostname:~ user$

#. Verify the container is still running by entering ``docker ps``

   Example output:

   .. code::

      hostname:~ user$ docker ps
      $ docker ps
      CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                                    COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                      NAMES
      4cf75944bfbc        f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins           "/init /snopsboot/..."   2 minutes ago       Up 2 minutes        8000/tcp, 50000/tcp, 0.0.0.0:2222->22/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8080->80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:10000->8080/tcp   loving_montalcini

Re-attach the Container
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Execute ``docker ps``

   Example output:

   .. code::

       hostname:~ user$ docker ps
       $ docker ps
       CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                                    COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                      NAMES
       4cf75944bfbc        f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins           "/init /snopsboot/..."   2 minutes ago       Up 2 minutes        8000/tcp, 50000/tcp, 0.0.0.0:2222->22/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8080->80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:10000->8080/tcp   loving_montalcini
      |------------|
        ^- YOUR CONTAINER ID

#. Copy the value under the ``CONTAINER ID`` column that correspond to the
   f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins image.
#. Execute ``docker attach <container_id>``
#. You may have to hit ``<Enter>`` twice to display the command prompt
#. Detach the container again by entering ``<Ctrl+p+q>``

Commit message:

bringing Class 2 into the Class 1 Blueprint
Changes to text and descriptions to bring class 2 into the class 1
blueprint. the only technical changes that needed to be adjusted were
the collections referencing the old BIGIP A management and the old
nodes which are no longer used in place of the containers. Module 5
will come later this week (the new GIT Commit work). I wanted a good
baseline before introducing that

docs/class2/module1/lab2.rst, after:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 1
.. |labnum| replace:: 2
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Obtain & Start the f5-super-netops-container Image
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In this lab we will use the ``docker`` cli tools to obtain and start the
f5-super-netops-container image.

Task 1 - Obtain and verify the container image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Return to your open **Root Terminal**

#. Execute ``docker pull f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

   Example output:

   .. code::

      $ docker pull f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins
      jenkins: Pulling from f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container
      019300c8a437: Pull complete
      2d6b38b56ae7: Pull complete
      5fab9174d5b4: Pull complete
      fc0251c85d81: Pull complete
      d5c1476cba25: Pull complete
      3f563aeb530f: Pull complete
      56717b902584: Pull complete
      3a973f5ee17d: Pull complete
      68d52f474d41: Pull complete
      604d6366bf0b: Pull complete
      b3b4184aef22: Pull complete
      2cebe1f5955c: Pull complete
      2b7bce9d0d9e: Pull complete
      259f696f7766: Pull complete
      6d5f2e57c5b3: Pull complete
      985706ad6d05: Pull complete
      a29f68892227: Pull complete
      7420ee096abd: Pull complete
      0907797bbe90: Pull complete
      5b8f2518bf01: Pull complete
      2940be145e35: Pull complete
      f2cb35cbf665: Pull complete
      5cdfa1779954: Pull complete
      61c1367b68d8: Pull complete
      5bcd8c5223bb: Pull complete
      b0defdb83b82: Pull complete
      Digest: sha256:27563f98bf58c9d26eb5989acaf540a9ad7fb1806e4a4c373ad28769ebe63ef4
      Status: Downloaded newer image for f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins

#. Execute ``docker images``

   Example output:

   .. code::

      $ docker images
      REPOSITORY                               TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
      f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container   jenkins             b71fc40407e4        2 weeks ago         490MB

Task 2 - Start the container image
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To start the container we will execute the command:

#. Execute ``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=master f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

.. NOTE:: The image requires Internet connectivity to download the latest versions of tools and documentation.  Please ensure you have proper connectivity from your host prior to starting the image.  If you need to use a proxy please refer to the documentation at https://docs.docker.com

   The image will now start and load resources from the Internet.  This process
   may take a while depending on the speed of your connection.  When the startup
   process is complete you will be presented in the ``root`` user prompt.  You
   can interact with the image with standard Linux commands.  In the next lab
   we will connect to the image via SSH and HTTP.

   The ``-p`` option publishes a L4 port from the container to the host.  For
   example the ``-p 8080:80`` option will redirect port ``8080`` on the host system
   to port ``80`` in the container.

   The ``-it`` option will make the session interactive and allocate a pseudo-TTY

   The ``-e`` option will specify a Github Branch, in this case we are pulling from ``master``

   The ``f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins`` option is the name
   associated with the image we obtained in Task 1.

   Example startup output:

   .. code::

      container:jenkins
      [s6-init] making user provided files available at /var/run/s6/etc...exited 0.
      [s6-init] ensuring user provided files have correct perms...exited 0.
      [fix-attrs.d] applying ownership & permissions fixes...
      [fix-attrs.d] done.
      [cont-init.d] executing container initialization scripts...
      [cont-init.d] done.
      [services.d] starting services
      [services.d] done.
      [environment] SNOPS_HOST_SSH=2222
      [environment] SNOPS_REPO=https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container.git
      [environment] SNOPS_AUTOCLONE=1
      [environment] SNOPS_HOST_IP=172.17.0.2
      [environment] SNOPS_ISALIVE=1
      [environment] SNOPS_GIT_HOST=github.com
      [environment] SNOPS_REVEALJS_DEV=0
      [environment] SNOPS_HOST_HTTP=8080
      [environment] SNOPS_IMAGE=jenkins
      [environment] SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=master
      Reticulating splines...
      Becoming self-aware...
      [cloneGitRepos] Retrieving repository list from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container.git#develop
      [updateRepos] Processing /tmp/snops-repo/images/jenkins/fs/etc/snopsrepo.d/jenkins.json
      [updateRepos]  Processing /tmp/snops-repo/images/base/fs/etc/snopsrepo.d/base.json
      [updateRepos] Processing /tmp/user_repos.json
      [cloneGitRepos] Loading repositories from /home/snops/repos.json
      [cloneGitRepos] Found 7 repositories to clone...
      [cloneGitRepos][1/7] Cloning f5-sphinx-theme#master from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-sphinx-theme.git
      [cloneGitRepos][1/7]  Installing f5-sphinx-theme#master
      [cloneGitRepos][2/7] Cloning f5-super-netops-container#develop from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container.git
      [cloneGitRepos][2/7]  Installing f5-super-netops-container#develop
      [cloneGitRepos][3/7] Cloning f5-application-services-integration-iApp#develop from https://github.com/F5Networks/f5-application-services-integration-iApp.git
      [cloneGitRepos][3/7]  Installing f5-application-services-integration-iApp#develop
      [cloneGitRepos][4/7] Cloning f5-postman-workflows#develop from https://github.com/0xHiteshPatel/f5-postman-workflows.git
      [cloneGitRepos][4/7]  Installing f5-postman-workflows#develop
      [cloneGitRepos][5/7] Cloning f5-automation-labs#master from https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-automation-labs.git
      [cloneGitRepos][5/7]  Installing f5-automation-labs#master
      [cloneGitRepos][6/7] Cloning ultimate-vimrc#master from https://github.com/amix/vimrc.git
      [cloneGitRepos][6/7]  Installing ultimate-vimrc#master
      [cloneGitRepos][7/7] Cloning reveal-js#master from https://github.com/hakimel/reveal.js.git
      [cloneGitRepos][7/7]  Installing reveal-js#master
                                      .----------.
                                     /          /
                                    /   ______.'
                              _.._ /   /_
                            .' .._/      '''--.
                            | '  '___          `.
                          __| |__    `'.         |
                         |__   __|      )        |
                            | | ......-'        /
                            | | \          _..'`
                            | |  '------'''
                            | |                      _
                            |_|                     | |
       ___ _   _ _ __   ___ _ __          _ __   ___| |_ ___  _ __  ___
      / __| | | | '_ \ / _ \ '__| ______ | '_ \ / _ \ __/ _ \| '_ \/ __|
      \__ \ |_| | |_) |  __/ |   |______|| | | |  __/ || (_) | |_) \__ \
      |___/\__,_| .__/ \___|_|           |_| |_|\___|\__\___/| .__/|___/
                | |                                          | |
                |_|                                          |_|

      Welcome to the f5-super-netops-container.  This image has the following
      services running:

       SSH  tcp/22
       HTTP tcp/80

      To access these services you may need to remap ports on your host to the
      local container using the command:

       docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -it f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:base

      From the HOST perspective, this results in:

       localhost:2222 -> f5-super-netops-container:22
       localhost:8080 -> f5-super-netops-container:80

      You can then connect using the following:

       HTTP: http://localhost:8080
       SSH:  ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost

      Default Credentials:

       snops/default
       root/default

      Go forth and automate!

      (you can now detach by using Ctrl+P+Q)

      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] #

Task 3 - Detach/Re-attach the Container
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When running containers it's important to understand how you launched it, ours
was launched as a **foreground process**, if you typed
the ``exit`` command in the running container it will shutdown.  In order to
avoid this you should detach from the container once it has completed booting.
You can still perform functions by using SSH to access the container as
explained in the next lab.

Its likely that the installation of the f5-super-netops-container will not be
on a localhost while running in a large environment, the steps below show how
you can leave this instance running as a background process, if needed.

Detach the Container
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Issue a ``Ctrl+p+q`` in the running TTY.

   Example output:

   .. code::

      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] #
      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] #
      [root@f5-super-netops] [/] # <enter Ctrl+p+q>
      hostname:~ user$

#. Verify our container is still running by entering ``docker ps``

   Example output:

   .. code::

      hostname:~ user$ docker ps
      $ docker ps
      CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                                    COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                      NAMES
      4cf75944bfbc        f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins           "/init /snopsboot/..."   2 minutes ago       Up 2 minutes        8000/tcp, 50000/tcp, 0.0.0.0:2222->22/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8080->80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:10000->8080/tcp   loving_montalcini

Re-attach the Container
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. Execute ``docker ps``

   Example output:

   .. code::

       hostname:~ user$ docker ps
       $ docker ps
       CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                                    COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                                                                                      NAMES
       4cf75944bfbc        f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins           "/init /snopsboot/..."   2 minutes ago       Up 2 minutes        8000/tcp, 50000/tcp, 0.0.0.0:2222->22/tcp, 0.0.0.0:8080->80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:10000->8080/tcp   loving_montalcini
      |------------|
        ^- YOUR CONTAINER ID

#. Copy the value under the ``CONTAINER ID`` column that correspond to the
   f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins image.
#. Execute ``docker attach <container_id>``
#. You may have to hit ``<Enter>`` twice to display the command prompt
#. Detach the container again by entering ``<Ctrl+p+q>``
