docs/class2/module1/lab3.rst, before:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 1
.. |labnum| replace:: 3
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Connect to f5-super-netops-container
------------------------------------------------------------------

In the previous lab we started the container image and were presented with a
root command prompt.  In order to use the container and its associated
tools properly you connect via SSH and/or HTTP.

.. _lab1_3_1:

Task 1 – Connect via SSH
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to the image via SSH we must use the published port specified in the
``docker run`` command.  To review the command used to start the container was:

``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=develop
f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:develop-jenkins``

This will publish the standard SSH service on ``TCP/22`` to ``TCP/2222`` on the
Docker host.  In the case of the SSH service the following mapping applies:

``localhost:2222 -> f5-super-netops-container:22``

.. NOTE:: If you are using an F5 provided lab environment please use the SSH
   client and connect to the 'f5-super-netops-container SSH' item

Additionally the container includes the ``snops`` user with a password of
``default``.  To connect to the container execute the following command
or it's OS-specific equivalent:

``ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost``

.. NOTE:: The host SSH keys are regenerated each time the container boots.  As
   a result you may receive an error when trying to connect indicating the host
   key has changed.  This error is safe to ignore in this case and can be
   resolved by removing the key from ``~/.ssh/known_hosts``.  You can also
   configure your local SSH config by adding the following to ``~/.ssh/config``:

   .. code::

       Host localhost
       Port 2222
       StrictHostKeyChecking no
       UserKnownHostsFile /dev/null

Example output:

.. code::

   $ ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost
   Warning: Permanently added '[localhost]:2222' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
   snops@localhost's password:
                                   .----------.
                                  /          /
                                 /   ______.'
                           _.._ /   /_
                         .' .._/      '''--.
                         | '  '___          `.
                       __| |__    `'.         |
                      |__   __|      )        |
                         | | ......-'        /
                         | | \          _..'`
                         | |  '------'''
                         | |                      _
                         |_|                     | |
    ___ _   _ _ __   ___ _ __          _ __   ___| |_ ___  _ __  ___
   / __| | | | '_ \ / _ \ '__| ______ | '_ \ / _ \ __/ _ \| '_ \/ __|
   \__ \ |_| | |_) |  __/ |   |______|| | | |  __/ || (_) | |_) \__ \
   |___/\__,_| .__/ \___|_|           |_| |_|\___|\__\___/| .__/|___/
             | |                                          | |
             |_|                                          |_|

   Welcome to the f5-super-netops-container.  This image has the following
   services running:

    SSH  tcp/22
    HTTP tcp/80

   To access these services you may need to remap ports on your host to the
   local container using the command:

    docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -it f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:base

   From the HOST perspective, this results in:

    localhost:2222 -> f5-super-netops-container:22
    localhost:8080 -> f5-super-netops-container:80

   You can then connect using the following:

    HTTP: http://localhost:8080
    SSH:  ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost

   Default Credentials:

    snops/default
    root/default

   Go forth and automate!
   [snops@f5-super-netops] [~] $

Task 2 – Connect via HTTP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to the image via HTTP we must use the published port specified in the
``docker run`` command.  To review the command used to start the container was:

``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=develop
f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:develop-jenkins``

This will publish the standard HTTP service on ``TCP/80`` to ``TCP/8080`` on the
Docker host.  In the case of the HTTP service the following mapping applies:

``localhost:8080 -> f5-super-netops-container:80``

.. NOTE:: If you are using an F5 provided lab environment please use the browser
   and click the 'Super Netops Container' bookmark.

To connect via HTTP open a web browser and enter the URL:

``http://10.1.1.8:8080/start``

You should see a page like this:

|image78|

Task 3 – Connect via Jenkins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to the image via Jenkins we must use the published port specified in the
``docker run`` command.  To review the command used to start the container was:

``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=develop
f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:develop-jenkins``

This will publish the standard Jenkins service on ``TCP/8080`` to ``TCP/10000`` on the
Docker host.  In the case of the Jenkins service the following mapping applies:

``10.1.1.8:10000 -> f5-super-netops-container:8080``

.. NOTE:: There is no bookmark in your browser, you may find it easier to
   reference later if you create one after connecting the first time

To connect via HTTP open a web browser and enter the URL:

``http://10.1.1.8:10000``

You should see a page like this:

|image89|

.. |image78| image:: /_static/image078.png
   :align: middle
   :scale: 50%
.. |image89| image:: /_static/class2/image089.png
   :align: middle
   :scale: 50%

Commit message:

Edits to class 2 and addition of the Reveal Presentation
Moved the SNOPS container away from develop on the Jenkins variant,
also added Chris’s reveal presentation for Class 1. Lots of other
spelling an spacing issues

docs/class2/module1/lab3.rst, after:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 1
.. |labnum| replace:: 3
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Connect to f5-super-netops-container
------------------------------------------------------------------

In the previous lab we started the container image and were presented with a
root user terminal.  In order to use the container and its associated
tools properly we will connect via SSH and/or HTTP.

.. _lab1_3_1:

Task 1 – Connect via SSH
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to the image via SSH we must use the published port specified in the
``docker run`` command.  **To review** the command used to start the container was:

``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=master
f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

This will publish the standard SSH service on ``TCP/22`` to ``TCP/2222`` on the
Docker host.  In the case of the SSH service the following mapping applies:

``localhost:2222 -> f5-super-netops-container:22``

.. NOTE:: If you are using an F5 provided lab environment please use the SSH
   client and connect to the 'f5-super-netops-container SSH' item

The container includes the ``snops`` user with a password of
``default``.  If you are not using the F5 Lab environment connect to the container
execute the following command or it's OS-specific equivalent:

``ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost``

.. NOTE:: The host SSH keys for our environment are regenerated each time the container boots,
   you may receive an error when trying to connect indicating the host
   key has changed.  This error is safe to ignore in this case and can be
   resolved by removing the key from ``~/.ssh/known_hosts``.  You can also
   configure your local SSH config by adding the following to ``~/.ssh/config``:

   .. code::

       Host localhost
       Port 2222
       StrictHostKeyChecking no
       UserKnownHostsFile /dev/null

Example output of connecting to the container:

.. code::

   $ ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost
   Warning: Permanently added '[localhost]:2222' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
   snops@localhost's password:
                                   .----------.
                                  /          /
                                 /   ______.'
                           _.._ /   /_
                         .' .._/      '''--.
                         | '  '___          `.
                       __| |__    `'.         |
                      |__   __|      )        |
                         | | ......-'        /
                         | | \          _..'`
                         | |  '------'''
                         | |                      _
                         |_|                     | |
    ___ _   _ _ __   ___ _ __          _ __   ___| |_ ___  _ __  ___
   / __| | | | '_ \ / _ \ '__| ______ | '_ \ / _ \ __/ _ \| '_ \/ __|
   \__ \ |_| | |_) |  __/ |   |______|| | | |  __/ || (_) | |_) \__ \
   |___/\__,_| .__/ \___|_|           |_| |_|\___|\__\___/| .__/|___/
             | |                                          | |
             |_|                                          |_|

   Welcome to the f5-super-netops-container.  This image has the following
   services running:

    SSH  tcp/22
    HTTP tcp/80

   To access these services you may need to remap ports on your host to the
   local container using the command:

    docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -it f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:base

   From the HOST perspective, this results in:

    localhost:2222 -> f5-super-netops-container:22
    localhost:8080 -> f5-super-netops-container:80

   You can then connect using the following:

    HTTP: http://localhost:8080
    SSH:  ssh -p 2222 snops@localhost

   Default Credentials:

    snops/default
    root/default

   Go forth and automate!
   [snops@f5-super-netops] [~] $

Task 2 – Connect via HTTP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to the image via HTTP we use the published port specified in the
``docker run`` command.  **To review** the command used to start the container was:

``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=master
f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

This will publish the standard HTTP service on ``TCP/80`` to ``TCP/8080`` on the
Docker host.  In the case of the HTTP service the following mapping applies:

``localhost:8080 -> f5-super-netops-container:80``

.. NOTE:: If you are using an F5 provided lab environment please use the browser
   and click the 'Super Netops Container' bookmark.

To connect outside of the F5 Lab environment via HTTP, open a web browser and enter the URL:

``http://(YourDockerSever):8080/start``

You should see a page like this:

|image78|

Task 3 – Connect via Jenkins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To connect to the image via Jenkins we use the published port specified in the
``docker run`` command.  **To review** the command used to start the container was:

``docker run -p 8080:80 -p 2222:22 -p 10000:8080 --rm -it -e SNOPS_GH_BRANCH=master
f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

This will publish the standard Jenkins service on ``TCP/8080`` to ``TCP/10000`` on the
Docker host.  In the case of the Jenkins service the following mapping applies:

``10.1.1.8:10000 -> f5-super-netops-container:8080``

.. NOTE:: If you are using an F5 provided lab environment please use the browser and click the ‘Jenkins’ bookmark.

To connect via HTTP open a web browser and enter the URL:

``http://(YourDockerSever):10000``

You should see a page like this:

|image89|

.. |image78| image:: /_static/image078.png
   :align: middle
   :scale: 50%
.. |image89| image:: /_static/class2/image089.png
   :align: middle
   :scale: 95%
