docs/class2/module1/module1.rst, before:

Module 1: f5-super-netops-container Toolkit
===========================================

In this module, we will explore how to use the **f5-super-netops-container**
toolkit to easily integrate various F5 Automation, Orchestration, Super-NetOps and
DevOps tools, along with framework technologies.

The f5-super-netops-container is meant to provide a simple way for users to
quickly duplicate a standard automation and orchestration environment in your
local machine/lab environment.  The container is **continuously updated** to include
the latest tools and documentation.

The labs in this module will show you how to install the
f5-super-netops-container image, start it in your local environment and access
various tools and documentation.

To install the f5-super-netops-container, your system must
support running Docker Community Edition (CE).  Please refer to
https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/#platform-support-matrix for
more information.

This toolkit is fully open source and is on GitHub at
https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   lab*

Commit message:

bringing Class 2 into the Class 1 Blueprint
Changes to text and descriptions to bring class 2 into the class 1
blueprint. the only technical changes that needed to be adjusted were
the collections referencing the old BIGIP A management and the old
nodes which are no longer used in place of the containers. Module 5
will come later this week (the new GIT Commit work). I wanted a good
baseline before introducing that

docs/class2/module1/module1.rst, after:

Module 1: f5-super-netops-container Toolkit
===========================================

In this module, we will explore how to use the **f5-super-netops-container**
toolkit to easily integrate various F5 Automation, Orchestration, Super-NetOps
and DevOps tools, along with framework technologies.

The f5-super-netops-container is meant to be provided as a technical leave
behind, a functional solution that contains tools (which we will use in this
Class) and documentation around F5 Cloud Solutions. The container is
**continuously updated** to always include our latest information.

The labs in this module will show you how to install the
f5-super-netops-container image; you can also start it in your local
environment and access the same various tools and documentation.

To install the f5-super-netops-container, your system must
support running Docker Community Edition (CE).  Please refer to
https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/#platform-support-matrix for
more information.

This toolkit is fully open source and is on GitHub at
https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   lab*
