docs/class1/bigipbasics.rst, before:

.. _bigipbasics:

BIG-IP Basics (optional)
------------------------

Just in case you're new to the F5 BIG-IP platform (or need a refesher) we've
included some links and videos below that will help get you started.  

What is BIG-IP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/D6J_j7HdkV8?rel=0" frameborder="0" gesture="media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

*Source: https://devcentral.f5.com/articles/lightboard-lessons-what-is-big-ip-26793*

BIG-IP Basic Nomenclature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="600" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2YRKTyMgV4M" frameborder="0" gesture="media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

*Source: https://devcentral.f5.com/articles/lightboard-lessons-big-ip-basic-nomenclature-26144*

F5 DevCentral BIG-IP Basics Articles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

BIG-IP Basics Articles: https://devcentral.f5.com/articles?tag=devcentral+basics

HA Proxy to Big-IP Quick start
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
==========          ==========
HA Proxy            F5 Big-IP
==========          ==========
Frontend            Virtual Server
==========          ==========

Commit message:

Completed HA proxy terminology
Completed HA Proxy terminology

docs/class1/bigipbasics.rst, after:

.. _bigipbasics:

BIG-IP Basics (optional)
------------------------

Just in case you're new to the F5 BIG-IP platform (or need a refesher) we've
included some links and videos below that will help get you started.  

What is BIG-IP
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/D6J_j7HdkV8?rel=0" frameborder="0" gesture="media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

*Source: https://devcentral.f5.com/articles/lightboard-lessons-what-is-big-ip-26793*

BIG-IP Basic Nomenclature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

   <iframe width="600" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2YRKTyMgV4M" frameborder="0" gesture="media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

*Source: https://devcentral.f5.com/articles/lightboard-lessons-big-ip-basic-nomenclature-26144*

F5 DevCentral BIG-IP Basics Articles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

BIG-IP Basics Articles: https://devcentral.f5.com/articles?tag=devcentral+basics

HA Proxy to Big-IP Quick start
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If you are already familiar with HA Proxy, learning F5 Big-IP will be straightforward once you learn the F5 terminology. Here is a list of common config/terminology and their F5 equivalent

==========          ==========
HA Proxy            F5 Big-IP
==========          ==========
Frontend            Virtual Server (VIP)
==========          ==========
Backend             Pool
==========          ==========
Server              Member
==========          ==========
mode http           HTTP Profile
==========          ==========
default_backend     Default pool
==========          ==========
use_backend         LTM policy
==========          ==========
check port          Health monitor
