docs/class2/module4/module4.rst, before:

Module 4: Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery
======================================================

This Module will continue to build up from Infrastructure to the Self-Service or CI/CD goal.
We will be building on the code that was utilized in the previous modules and labs, though now
we'll use Jenkins to provide a CI/CD mechanism. This lab will also use Slack to notify
users of changes going on in real time.

Tools we will be using:

- f5-newman-wrapper & previous workflows

  - The previous 5 wrapper workflows files will be executed, but from a Jenkins Pipeline

- super-netops-container

  - Continuing delivery of F5 configuration from a self contained toolkit
  - This version or **variant** of the container has Jenkins installed for you, this is depicted from tag associated to the Docker Image ``f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:develop-jenkins``

- Slack

  - There has been a Slack channel already setup on your behalf, which we will all be monitoring for environment changes

- Jenkins

  - Jenkins is installed on the super-netops-container access via ``http://10.1.1.8:10000`` (Web) user credentials are ``admin/default``

From the previous labs you should already have your Super-NetOps-Container already
running, if it's not please refer to Class 2 Module 2 on starting your service.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   lab*

Commit message:

Edits to class 2 and addition of the Reveal Presentation
Moved the SNOPS container away from develop on the Jenkins variant,
also added Chris’s reveal presentation for Class 1. Lots of other
spelling an spacing issues

docs/class2/module4/module4.rst, after:

Module 4: Continuous Integration / Continuous Delivery
======================================================

This Module will continue to build up our Infrastructure to a Self-Service or CI/CD goal.
We will be building on the code that was utilized in the previous modules and labs, though now
we'll use Jenkins to provide a CI/CD mechanism. This lab will also use Slack to notify
users of changes going on in real time.

Tools we will be using:

- f5-newman-wrapper & previous workflows

  - The previous 5 wrapper workflows files will be executed, but from a Jenkins Pipeline

- f5-super-netops-container

  - Continuing delivery of F5 configuration from a self contained toolkit
  - This version or **variant** of the container has Jenkins installed for you, this is depicted from tag associated to the Docker Image ``f5devcentral/f5-super-netops-container:jenkins``

- Slack

  - There has been a Slack channel already setup on your behalf, which we will all be monitoring for environment changes
  - Any person with an @f5.com email address can join the Slack Channel. To join and view the transactions use https://f5agilitydevops.slack.com/signup

- Jenkins

  - Jenkins is installed on the f5-super-netops-container, accessed via ``http://10.1.1.8:10000`` (Web) user credentials are ``admin/default``

From the previous labs you should already have your Super-NetOps-Container already
running, if it's not please refer to Class 2 Module 2 on starting the service.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   lab*
