docs/class1/module2/lab4.rst, before:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 2
.. |labnum| replace:: 4
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Deploy L4-7 Services
--------------------------------------------------

To drive iApp automation-based L4-7 deployments, iWorkflow includes the
capability to create a Tenant Service Catalog via L4 – L7 Service
Templates. This model of deployment enables Declarative automation of F5
L4-7 services provided the underlying iApp templates are designed with a
declarative presentation layer in mind. To demonstrate this capability
we will create a simple Service Catalog Template and deploy and
application from a tenant on our BIG-IP devices using the App Services iApp.

Task 1 - Install the App Services iApp on iWorkflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

iWorkflow serves as the Source-of-Truth for iApp templates.  As a result iApp
templates that will be used to automate deployments on BIG-IP must be installed
on iWorkflow first.  Once installed, iWorkflow will automatically determine
when a template needs to be installed on BIG-IP and perform the needed actions.

.. NOTE:: iApp template installation on BIG-IP devices occurs during the
   **first** service deployment to a device.

To assist in deployment of the App Services iApp template and it's associated
sample service templates a Postman collection has been created.  We will first
import the collection into Postman and then use it to install the template
into iWorkflow.

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Import the following collection URL using 'Import' -> 'Import from Link':

   .. parsed-literal::

      :raw_github_url:`/postman_collections/AppSvcs_iApp_Workflows.postman_collection.json`

#. Expand the ``AppSvcs_iApp_Workflows`` collection.  Then open the
   ``2_Install_on_iWorkflow`` folder and click the
   ``Install AppSvcs Template on iWorkflow`` item.

#. You can examine the Body of this request, however, understand that it
   contains the minified code that comprises the iApp and will not be very
   readable.  This collection uses the underlying variables that have already
   been set (``iwf_mgmt`` and ``iwf_auth_token``) to make installation simple.

#. Click the 'Send' button to install the iApp.

Task 2 – Create the f5-http-lb L4–7 Service Template
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An L4-7 Service Deployment on iWorkflow is driven by the creation of an
L4 – L7 Service Template. These templates allow a provider
(administrator) to specify the values of specific fields from an origin
iApp presentation layer. Additionally, the provider also defines the
tenant interface to the service by marking which fields are ‘\ **Tenant
Editable**\ ’ and therefore visible during service deployment from the
tenant. You can think of a Service Catalog Template and a filter that
allows the vast majority of fields to be filled in or defaulted while
only exposing the minimal set of fields required to deploy a service.

In this task we will create a Service Catalog Template that utilizes the
App Services iApp you just installed.

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Expand the ``3_iWorkflow_Service_Templates_Examples`` folder of the
   ``AppSvcs_iApp_Workflows`` collection

#. Click the “f5-http-lb Template” item in the collection. This request is
   pre-built and will create a new Service Template using the App Services iApp.
   Click the ‘Send’ button to create the template.

#. Open a Chrome tab to iWorkflow (https://10.1.1.6) and login with
   admin/admin credentials. Expand the ‘Service Templates’ pane and double-click
   the “f5-http-lb” template. Notice various defaults have been
   populated (e.g. port ‘80’ for the pool\_\_port variable) and some
   fields have been marked as ‘Tenant Editable’:

   |image59|

Task 2 – Tenant L4-7 Service Deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this task we will perform CRUD operations based on a deployment of
the Service Catalog Template created in the previous task.

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Open a new Chrome tab to iWorkflow (https://10.1.1.6) and login with
   the credentials Username: tenant, Password: tenant. Expand the
   ‘L4-L7 Services’ pane.

#. Switch back to F5 Automation & Orchestration Intro Postman Collection and click the
   “Step 1: Create TENANT Service Deployment” item in Lab 2.4.
   Examine the URL and JSON body. We will be creating a
   new Tenant Service Deployment under ‘MyTenant’ with the properties
   marked as ‘Tenant Editable’ provided:

   |image60|

#. Click the ‘Send’ button to create the Service Deployment. Examine
   the response. The iWorkflow GUI in your Chrome tab will also
   reflect a new item in the Services pane:

   |image61|

#. Open a Chrome tab to BIGIP-A. Click on iApps -> Application Services ->
   Applications -> example-f5-http-lb to view the config that was
   deployed on BIG-IP:

   |image62|

#. Go back to Postman and click the “Step 2: Get TENANT Service
   Deployment” item in the collection and click ‘Send’. This item is
   example of a GET of the service definition. The response should match
   what you see in the iWorkflow GUI when viewing the properties of a
   deployment.

#. Click the “Step 3: Modify TENANT Service Deployment” item in the
   collection. This request is an example of an Update operation.
   Notice that we are sending a PUT request to the URL representing
   the service deployment. Examine the JSON body and note that in the
   ‘pool\_\_Members’ table there is an additional pool member with an IP
   of 10.1.10.12 that will be added. Click the ‘Send’ button to re-deploy
   the service:

   |image63|

#. Verify that the pool member was added on BIG-IP:

   |image64|

#. Go back to Postman and click the “Step 4: Delete TENANT Service
   Deployment” item. This item will send a DELETE request to the URL for
   the service deployment. Click ‘Send’ and verify that the deployment
   has been removed in the iWorkflow and BIG-IP GUIs.

.. |image59| image:: /_static/image059.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image60| image:: /_static/image060.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image61| image:: /_static/image061.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image62| image:: /_static/image062.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image63| image:: /_static/image063.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image64| image:: /_static/image064.png
   :scale: 40%

Commit message:

mod2 lab4 errata. For line 121, proposing "GET"  to be changed to "Read operation" to match the flow of going through each of the CRUD operations.

docs/class1/module2/lab4.rst, after:

.. |labmodule| replace:: 2
.. |labnum| replace:: 4
.. |labdot| replace:: |labmodule|\ .\ |labnum|
.. |labund| replace:: |labmodule|\ _\ |labnum|
.. |labname| replace:: Lab\ |labdot|
.. |labnameund| replace:: Lab\ |labund|

Lab |labmodule|\.\ |labnum|\: Deploy L4-7 Services
--------------------------------------------------

To drive iApp automation-based L4-7 deployments, iWorkflow includes the
capability to create a Tenant Service Catalog via L4 – L7 Service
Templates. This model of deployment enables Declarative automation of F5
L4-7 services provided the underlying iApp templates are designed with a
declarative presentation layer in mind. To demonstrate this capability
we will create a simple Service Catalog Template and deploy an
application from a tenant on our BIG-IP devices using the App Services iApp.

Task 1 - Install the App Services iApp on iWorkflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

iWorkflow serves as the Source-of-Truth for iApp templates.  As a result iApp
templates that will be used to automate deployments on BIG-IP must be installed
on iWorkflow first.  Once installed, iWorkflow will automatically determine
when a template needs to be installed on BIG-IP and perform the needed actions.

.. NOTE:: iApp template installation on BIG-IP devices occurs during the
   **first** service deployment to a device.

To assist in deployment of the App Services iApp template and its associated
sample service templates a Postman collection has been created.  We will first
import the collection into Postman and then use it to install the template
into iWorkflow.

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Import the following collection URL using 'Import' -> 'Import from Link':

   .. parsed-literal::

      :raw_github_url:`/postman_collections/AppSvcs_iApp_Workflows.postman_collection.json`

#. Expand the ``AppSvcs_iApp_Workflows`` collection.  Then open the
   ``2_Install_on_iWorkflow`` folder and click the
   ``Install AppSvcs Template on iWorkflow`` item.

#. You can examine the Body of this request, however, understand that it
   contains the minified code that comprises the iApp and will not be very
   readable.  This collection uses the underlying variables that have already
   been set (``iwf_mgmt`` and ``iwf_auth_token``) to make installation simple.

#. Click the 'Send' button to install the iApp.

Task 2 – Create the f5-http-lb L4–7 Service Template
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An L4-7 Service Deployment on iWorkflow is driven by the creation of an
L4 – L7 Service Template. These templates allow a provider
(administrator) to specify the values of specific fields from an origin
iApp presentation layer. Additionally, the provider also defines the
tenant interface to the service by marking which fields are ‘\ **Tenant
Editable**\ ’ and therefore visible during service deployment from the
tenant. You can think of a Service Catalog Template as a filter that
allows the vast majority of fields to be filled in or defaulted while
only exposing the minimal set of fields required to deploy a service.

In this task we will create a Service Catalog Template that utilizes the
App Services iApp you just installed.

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Expand the ``3_iWorkflow_Service_Templates_Examples`` folder of the
   ``AppSvcs_iApp_Workflows`` collection

#. Click the “f5-http-lb Template” item in the collection. This request is
   pre-built and will create a new Service Template using the App Services iApp.
   Click the ‘Send’ button to create the template.

#. Open a Chrome tab to iWorkflow (https://10.1.1.6) and login with
   admin/admin credentials. Expand the ‘Service Templates’ pane and double-click
   the “f5-http-lb” template. Notice various defaults have been
   populated (e.g. port ‘80’ for the pool\_\_port variable) and some
   fields have been marked as ‘Tenant Editable’:

   |image59|

Task 2 – Tenant L4-7 Service Deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this task we will perform CRUD operations based on a deployment of
the Service Catalog Template created in the previous task.

Perform the following steps to complete this task:

#. Open a new Chrome tab to iWorkflow (https://10.1.1.6) and login with
   the credentials Username: tenant, Password: tenant. Expand the
   ‘L4-L7 Services’ pane.

#. Switch back to F5 Automation & Orchestration Intro Postman Collection and click the
   “Step 1: Create TENANT Service Deployment” item in Lab 2.4.
   Examine the URL and JSON body. We will be creating a
   new Tenant Service Deployment under ‘MyTenant’ with the properties
   marked as ‘Tenant Editable’ provided:

   |image60|

#. Click the ‘Send’ button to create the Service Deployment. Examine
   the response. The iWorkflow GUI in your Chrome tab will also
   reflect a new item in the Services pane:

   |image61|

#. Open a Chrome tab to BIGIP-A. Click on iApps -> Application Services ->
   Applications -> example-f5-http-lb to view the config that was
   deployed on BIG-IP:

   |image62|

#. Go back to Postman and click the “Step 2: Get TENANT Service
   Deployment” item in the collection and click ‘Send’. This item is an
   example of a Read operation of the service definition. The response should match
   what you see in the iWorkflow GUI when viewing the properties of a
   deployment.

#. Click the “Step 3: Modify TENANT Service Deployment” item in the
   collection. This request is an example of an Update operation.
   Notice that we are sending a PUT request to the URL representing
   the service deployment. Examine the JSON body and note that in the
   ‘pool\_\_Members’ table there is an additional pool member with an IP
   of 10.1.10.12 that will be added. Click the ‘Send’ button to re-deploy
   the service:

   |image63|

#. Verify that the pool member was added on BIG-IP:

   |image64|

#. Go back to Postman and click the “Step 4: Delete TENANT Service
   Deployment” item. This item will send a DELETE request to the URL for
   the service deployment. Click ‘Send’ and verify that the deployment
   has been removed in the iWorkflow and BIG-IP GUIs.

.. |image59| image:: /_static/image059.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image60| image:: /_static/image060.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image61| image:: /_static/image061.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image62| image:: /_static/image062.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image63| image:: /_static/image063.png
   :scale: 40%
.. |image64| image:: /_static/image064.png
   :scale: 40%
